# A Fun (De)Tour Into XFCE4

I tried to see if I can get xfce4-panel to work with DWM. There is a polybar patch for dwm but it's:

- A big diff and big patches are technical depth you pay when you add more patches to dwm, seen that with the systray
  patch colliding with slcolors before.
- Also I don't know polybar but have already all the xfce4 packages on the system - sometimes you still want graphical
  programs for stuff. 

Did not find much successfull attempts getting it to work so I tried myself.

The naive attempt revealed this:

```
~/inst/dwm ❯ xfce4-panel   
xfce4-panel: Failed to connect to session manager: Failed to connect to the session manager: SESSION_MANAGER environment variable not defined

```

So I did this

```
~/inst/dwm ❯ xfce4-session
```

and did get crazy output, tons of funny windows opening, cpu 100% and the system completely screwed.

No, no video of this, do NOT want to reproduce the mess I created ;-)


## Symptoms

- Restarting dwm, then even rebooting showed the login screen not going away, even after logged in 
- Opening a terminal, then exitting it, would still show that terminal open :-) 
- An `xfconf` process at 100% cpu...

Total confusion. Reboot. Still the same. What that that session manager do to my dwm setup?!


## Finding the Root Cause

After some digging I found that [variety][variety], the wallpaper setter ran amok. No wallpaper -> no going away of the sddm login
window, or re-rendering of the background after exit of the terminal.

Why did variety run amok? [This][variety2] showed what it does, when setting WPs. 

```python
for i in $(xfconf-query -c xfce4-desktop -p /backdrop -l | grep -E -e "screen.*/monitor.*image-path$" -e "screen.*/monitor.*/last-image$"); do
```

> [Here][xfconf] is xfconf. I ran the query myself. Output: Over 2000 different wallpaper settings for the `/backdrop`
sub tree.


Now I began to understand :-)

- dwm has not just 9 workspaces - it has `2**9`! All it's possible tag combis are announced to EWMH as different
  workspaces.
- xfce4 allows to set different wallpapers per workspace
- So when I started the xfce4 session manager within dwm, it asked X11 regarding the number of workspaces - and created an entry for each
  of them - per monitor :-)
- Which, as a symptom, was
    - completly screwing up variety's wallpaper setting loop
    - sending it into a timeout after 5 seconds
    - never actually setting the wallpaper
    - leaving me the user thinking dwm completely is disfunctional :-) 


## The Cure

Using `xfconf-query` I recursively remove the whole /backdrop tree, then set it to a sane value using `xfce4-settings-manager`, within a xfce4 session. Done, all worked again, fine :-)

Back to my CPU problem with the status bar...


[variety]: https://github.com/varietywalls
[variety2]: https://github.com/varietywalls/variety/issues/282
[xfconf]: https://docs.xfce.org/xfce/xfconf/xfconf-query
